So let's dive right in,
and let's add some conditions.
And of course there are various places
where we could think about adding conditions.
But here's one thing I wanna do.
Uploading that test report.
You could argue that we're only interested
in that test report if our tests fail.
If all our tests work,
we realistically might not
evaluate that test report anyways,
and therefore uploading and storing
that test report only makes sense
if we got some failing tests.
Therefore, we could add a condition here,
to this Upload test report step,
by adding the IF key,
that ensures that this step only runs
if this step that runs the tests fails.
And that's, by the way, important
for another reason as well.
If this test step fails,
this step normally wouldn't even be executed,
because, as explained a couple of minutes ago,
the default behavior of GitHub Actions is
that if one step fails, the entire job
to which the step belongs is canceled, is aborted,
and therefore this step wouldn't execute typically,
if that step failed.
And the other jobs, by the way,
typically also wouldn't be executed,
if any step like this step in another job fails.
So therefore let's actually quickly evaluate
that default behavior before we add that IF field.
And therefore, I'll go to this main content test file,
and make sure that my test fails, by removing that 'a' here.
With that change made, I can create a new commit broke test,
and now we can push this to a remote repository.
Therefore, I'll quickly create one here,
give it a name of gh-executionflow,
name is up to you.
I'll make it a private repository,
but it doesn't matter for this section.
I won't dive into any features
that would require a public or private repository.
And then with that URL copied,
I'll quickly connect it,
and thereafter we can push with that well known command.
So now this is pushed,
and since I'm pushing to the main branch,
the action that was added will be executed right away.
And as you will see, my test will fail.
By the way, here you also see that I got three jobs that run
after each other, and two jobs that run in parallel.
The test and the lint job run in parallel,
and build and deploy depend on the test job to finish first.
But let's see what happens if the test job fails here.
Here we see that it failed, and as a result
build and deploy aren't even executed, as you can see.
And the lint job still finishes,
because it ran in parallel,
it was started before this test job failed,
but build and deploy, since they depend on the test job,
don't even run.
That's the default behavior we have here.
The other dependent jobs were canceled because test failed.
Now let's add this IF condition.